added information on to use checkUrl in Form validation #6433 (#7202)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/developer/forms/form-validation.adoc

This naming convention is how Jenkins wires up your form validation method. The return type also must be FormValidation, which offers various static factory methods to create an instance. Form validation can be of 3 different kinds: `ok`, `warning` or `error`. Validation message can either be represented in plaintext or use HTML markup. Several validations of different kinds can be reported wrapping then into one using aggregate factory method.

=== To set up form validation within a Jelly template

> To configure form validation within a Jelly template to call doCheckXxx methods defined in a particular class in Jenkins, you'll indeed utilize the checkUrl and checkDependsOn attributes. Here's a breakdown of how these attributes are used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure form validation within a Jelly template to call `doCheckXxx` methods, defined in a particular class in Jenkins, you'll need to utilize the `checkUrl` and `checkDependsOn` attributes.
Here's a breakdown of how these attributes are used:
```
Suggestion to use code span for some of the items that seem to be something the user would enter.
Suggestion to have one full sentence per line and adjust some punctuation.

> The checkUrl Attribute specifies the URL that Jenkins will request to perform form validation. Typically, this URL points to the Jenkins server, where it handles the validation request. The value entered in the input field will be checked via AJAX against this URL, and any errors encountered will be rendered under the text field. This URL is associated with the method responsible for performing the validation (doCheckXxx method) within your Descriptor class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `checkUrl` attribute specifies the URL that Jenkins will request to perform form validation.
Typically, this URL points to the Jenkins server where it handles the validation request.
The value entered in the input field will be checked via AJAX against this URL and any errors encountered will be rendered under the text field.
This URL is associated with the method responsible for performing the validation (`doCheckXxx` method) within your Descriptor class.
```
Suggestion to use code span for user entered attributes, and change the case on attribute to match the other usage of it.
Suggestion to make each full sentence (with full stop) a single line (number).

> The checkDependsOn Attribute defines the dependency between the field being validated and the field(s) whose values are required for validation. It specifies the ID(s) of the field(s) that the validation depends on. When the dependent field(s) change, Jenkins triggers the validation of the current field. Additionally, the fields specified in checkDependsOn are sent along with the form validation request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `checkDependsOn` attribute defines the dependency between the field being validated and the field(s) whose values are required for validation.
It specifies the ID(s) of the field(s) that the validation depends on.
When the dependent field(s) change, Jenkins triggers the validation of the current field.
Additionally, the fields specified in `checkDependsOn` are sent along with the form validation request.
```
Suggestion to use one full sentence per line.
Suggestion to use code span for user entered/chosen attributes and lower case for "attributes" (to match usage elsewhere).

Author: yes understood from next time I will keep this in my notice, thank you for your help

This naming convention is how Jenkins wires up your form validation method. The return type also must be FormValidation, which offers various static factory methods to create an instance. Form validation can be of 3 different kinds: `ok`, `warning` or `error`. Validation message can either be represented in plaintext or use HTML markup. Several validations of different kinds can be reported wrapping then into one using aggregate factory method.

> === To set up form validation within a Jelly template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Setting up form validation within a Jelly template
```
Suggestion to update the header to have it align with the rest.

> To configure form validation within a Jelly template to call `doCheckXxx` methods, defined in a particular class in Jenkins, you'll need to utilize the `checkUrl` and `checkDependsOn` attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure form validation within a Jelly template to call `doCheckXxx` methods, defined in a particular class in Jenkins, you need to utilize the `checkUrl` and `checkDependsOn` attributes.
```
Removing unnecessary future tense and making it active voice.

Here's a breakdown of how these attributes are used:

> The `checkUrl` attribute specifies the URL that Jenkins will request to perform form validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `checkUrl` attribute specifies the URL that Jenkins requests to perform form validation.
```
Removing future tense for active voice.

> Typically, this URL points to the Jenkins server where it handles the validation request.

Reviewer 2: `checkUrl` is either a URL or an expression that produces a URL. If accompanied by `checkDependsOn`, it's interpreted as URL -- we'll refer to this interpretation mode as *modern*. If `checkDependsOn` is missing, `checkUrl` is interpreted in *legacy* mode by using the unsafe `eval` browser feature.

> Typically, this URL points to the Jenkins server where it handles the validation request.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, that's better.

> The value entered in the input field will be checked via AJAX against this URL and any errors encountered will be rendered under the text field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value entered in the input field is checked via AJAX against this URL and any errors encountered are rendered under the text field.
```
Removing future tense for active voice.

This URL is associated with the method responsible for performing the validation (`doCheckXxx` method) within your Descriptor class.

> The `checkDependsOn` attribute defines the dependency between the field being validated and the field(s) whose values are required for validation.

Reviewer 3: More accurately should be something like "In the modern `checkUrl` mode, which as of Jenkins 2.360 requires the `checkDependsOn` attribute to be set (but it can be an empty string). This mode automatically adds the value of the current form element as the query parameter called `value`. 

The proposed change "The `checkDependsOn` attribute defines the dependency between the field being validated and the field(s) whose values are required for validation." seems awkward and not to-the-point.

> It specifies the ID(s) of the field(s) that the validation depends on.

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is being suppored yet... It has to be a query parameter called `value` but not some query parameter name set by the developer.

Reviewer 3: Maybe only `name` and `value` are supprted fields now for `checkDependsOn `?

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I guess the wording as a whole just does not sit well with me.

When the dependent field(s) change, Jenkins triggers the validation of the current field.

> Additionally, the fields specified in `checkDependsOn` are sent along with the form validation request.

Reviewer 3: I am not sure if this is accurate, since it makes it sounds like the tag along is intentional and deliberate. 

For more info, please see https://www.jenkins.io/doc/developer/security/csp/#legacy-javascript-checkurl-validation

Reviewer 3: Bacially the `checkUrl` mode requires us to set the `checkDependsOn` attribute, but it can be simply an empty string.

Reviewer 3: Also, what do you mean by "When the dependent field(s) change"?

Reviewer 3: It sounds like they change by themselves without any developer intervention to me 😂

Reviewer 2: > since it makes it sounds like the tag along is intentional and deliberate.

But it is deliberate.

> When the dependent field(s) change,

Actually the current field is *dependent* on the fields specified in `checkDependsOn`, not the other way around.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I guess I just don't like the wording.

Author: Okay got it sir, sorry for any confusion

This naming convention is how Jenkins wires up your form validation method. The return type also must be FormValidation, which offers various static factory methods to create an instance. Form validation can be of 3 different kinds: `ok`, `warning` or `error`. Validation message can either be represented in plaintext or use HTML markup. Several validations of different kinds can be reported wrapping then into one using aggregate factory method.

=== Setting up form validation within a Jelly template

To configure form validation within a Jelly template to call `doCheckXxx` methods, defined in a particular class in Jenkins, you need to utilize the `checkUrl` and `checkDependsOn` attributes.

Here's a breakdown of how these attributes are used:

The `checkUrl` attribute specifies the URL that Jenkins requests to perform form validation.

> Typically, this URL points to the Jenkins server where it handles the validation request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `checkUrl` is either a URL or an expression that produces a URL. If accompanied by checkDependsOn, it's interpreted as an URL -- this mode as we interpret it is then considered "modern". If `checkDependsOn` is missing, `checkUrl` is interpreted to be in the legacy mode by using the unsafe `eval` browser feature.
```

> The value entered in the input field is checked via AJAX against this URL and any errors encountered are rendered under the text field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The value entered in the input field is checked via AJAX against this URL, and any validation errors encountered are rendered under the text field.
```

> The `checkUrl` is either a URL or an expression that produces a URL. If accompanied by checkDependsOn, it's interpreted as an URL -- this mode as we interpret it is then considered "modern". If `checkDependsOn` is missing, `checkUrl` is interpreted to be in the legacy mode by using the unsafe `eval` browser feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`checkUrl` is either a URL or an expression that produces a URL.
If accompanied by `checkDependsOn`, it's interpreted as a URL.
This mode, as we interpret it, is then considered "modern".
If `checkDependsOn` is missing, `checkUrl` is interpreted to be in the legacy mode by using the unsafe `eval` browser feature.
```
Suggestion to adjust the syntax used and formatting.

This URL is associated with the method responsible for performing the validation (`doCheckXxx` method) within your Descriptor class.

> The `checkDependsOn` attribute defines the dependency between the field being validated and the field(s) whose values are required for validation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the modern `checkUrl` mode, which as of Jenkins `2.360` requires the `checkDependsOn` attribute to be set (but it can be an empty string). This mode automatically adds the value of the current form element as the query parameter called `value`.
```

> It specifies the ID(s) of the field(s) that the validation depends on.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It specifies the field(s) to be sent, and includes but is not limited to `name` and `value`.
```

> When the dependent field(s) change, Jenkins triggers the validation of the current field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the dependent field(s) is changed, Jenkins triggers the validation of the current field.
```

> In the modern `checkUrl` mode, which as of Jenkins `2.360` requires the `checkDependsOn` attribute to be set (but it can be an empty string). This mode automatically adds the value of the current form element as the query parameter called `value`.
> It specifies the field(s) to be sent, and includes but is not limited to `name` and `value`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the modern `checkUrl` mode, which as of Jenkins 2.360 requires the `checkDependsOn` attribute to be set (even if it is an empty string), automatically adds the value of the current form element as the query parameter called `value`.
It specifies the field(s) to be sent and includes, but is not limited to, `name` and `value`.
```
Suggestion to adjust some syntax, punctuation, and formatting.
